# TerrariaOreBarCalculator
This is a small program that calculates how much ore is needed to craft bars in Terraria, as well as any additional items to craft the bars.

This program is currently in its first alpha state, so they WILL be bugs, especially if you know Terraria well, some of the calculations may be wrong. This program is also console-based for the time being, just so I can get to grips with TKinter, as I'm still a bit rusty with it. :)

# Who am I?

Hi, my name is George, I am 14 years old and I aspire to become a programmer, mainly for games but also ease of use apps, like this one. If i don't become a programmer I would like to become an IT / computer science teacher, teaching kids about the amazing science involved in computing; that is what I find so fascinating about IT.

I really hope you enjoy this small program, and, as always, my contact details are below.

Thanks!

# Where to contact me?

Email: georgestephendawson@gmail.com or itznachoyt13@gmail.com (both work)

# What is terraria?


Terraria is an action-adventure sandbox game developed by Re-Logic. The game was first released for Microsoft Windows on May 16, 2011, and has since been ported to several other platforms. The game features exploration, crafting, building, painting, and combat with a variety of creatures in a procedurally generated 2D world. Terraria received generally positive reviews, with praise given to its sandbox elements. The game had sold over 35 million copies by the end of 2020.

In-game screenshot showing the player at the starting area of a newly generated world
Terraria is a 2D sandbox game with gameplay that revolves around exploration, building, crafting, combat, survival, and mining, playable in both single-player and multiplayer modes.[1][2] The game has a 2D sprite tile-based graphical style reminiscent of the 16-bit sprites found on the Super NES.[2] The game is noted for its classic exploration-adventure style of gameplay, similar to games such as the Metroid series and Minecraft.[2][3][4]

The game starts in a procedurally generated world, with players starting out with a few basic tools and a non-player character (NPC) guide to get them started.[1] The game's world is made up of several layers of tiles that the player can interact with and modify.[citation needed] Many resources, such as metal ores, can be found while exploring caves. The player begins with low health and mana, which can be increased by finding certain items.[1] Some resources may only be found in certain areas of the map, stored in common and rare containers, or dropped by certain enemies.[1] The player uses resources to craft new items and equipment at an appropriate crafting station for that recipe. For example, tables or other items can be crafted at a workbench, bars can be smelted from ore at a furnace, and armor can be crafted at an anvil. Several advanced items in Terraria require multiple crafting operations where the product of one recipe is used as an ingredient for another.

The player can encounter many different types of enemies in Terraria, the occurrence of which depends on several factors including time, location, and random events.[1] The player can fight against enemies with swords, flails, bows, guns, magic spells, whips,[5] yoyos and summoned minions. The player may also battle bosses that utilize a number of different combat mechanics and can drop rare items. Bosses are summoned by using certain items or when certain criteria are met. The defeat of these bosses is directly tied to in-game progression, save for a few optional bosses.[6] Defeating a certain one advances the game into "hardmode", which adds many new enemies throughout the world, as well as new NPCs and items.[7]

By completing specific goals, such as defeating a boss or obtaining a certain item, players can attract NPCs to occupy structures or rooms they have built, such as a merchant, nurse, or wizard.[1] Some NPCs can be acquired by finding them throughout the world and will then reside in player-created houses after being rescued. Players may then buy or sell items and certain services from NPCs with coins found in the world. The game features many different biomes and areas, which are each home to a unique set of enemies and challenges. Three biomes, specifically the Corruption, Crimson, and the hardmode-exclusive Hallow, will expand by slowly overtaking and converting blocks in adjacent ones.

"Expert" and "Master mode" are difficulty modes that increase the challenge of the game in exchange for some exclusive items. "Journey" mode allows players to duplicate items, adjust the world's difficulty, and control weather and time at will while playing.[8] Terraria has support for mods, which is facilitated by the third-party tModLoader.[9][10][11] It later received official support when it was released as free downloadable content alongside the "Journey's End" update in 2020 on Steam.[12]

Development and release
Terraria was developed by Re-Logic beginning in January 2011,[13] and is built on the Microsoft XNA framework[14] and written in C#. Re-Logic was composed of Andrew Spinks, who designed and programmed the game, Finn Brice, who along with Spinks did the graphic design for the game, and Jeremy Guerrette, who was a production assistant at Re-Logic, but left shortly after the game's release.[15] The music was composed by Scott Lloyd Shelly.[16] The game was released for Microsoft Windows on May 16, 2011.[17] In December 2011, the game was updated to version 1.1, adding new monsters, bosses, NPCs, and items. The update also included improvements to the game's world generation technology and lighting system.[18] In February 2012, the developers announced that they would not be continuing active development, but would release a final bug-fix patch.[19] However, development resumed in 2013 with Spinks asking the community for ideas to include in future content updates.[20]

In September 2012, Spinks announced that Engine Software and 505 Games would be porting Terraria to Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.[21] The game was released for Xbox 360 via Xbox Live Arcade on March 27, 2013.[22] The PlayStation 3 version was released via the PlayStation Network in North America on March 26, 2013[22] and in Europe and Australia on May 15, 2013.[23] Shortly after the initial console release, 505 Games announced Terraria for PlayStation Vita;[24] it was released in Europe on December 11, 2013, and in North America on December 17, 2013.[25] Spike Chunsoft localized the PlayStation 3 and Vita versions for release in Japan, including exclusive items such as a costume based on Monokuma from their Danganronpa series.[26][27] In May 2013, 505 Games announced a mobile version of Terraria ported by Dutch studio Codeglue for Android, iOS, and Windows Phone.[28] It was released for iOS on August 29, 2013,[29] and for Android on September 13, 2013.[30] The Windows Phone version was released on September 12, 2014.[31]

In October 2013, Re-Logic released version 1.2 for Terraria on Windows. The update added a host of new mechanics, gameplay changes, and graphics adjustments.[32] After the 1.2 update was released the game returned to receiving continuous updates.[33][34] The console and mobile versions received the update in 2014.[35][36] Terraria released on GOG.com on October 2, 2014.[37] A downloadable version of Terraria was released for PlayStation 4 on November 11, 2014, and Xbox One on November 14, 2014,[38][39] with a retail release on December 2, 2014.[40] In September 2014, Re-Logic announced that Terraria would be coming to macOS and Linux.[41] They were both released on August 12, 2015.[42] The Nintendo 3DS version was first released on the Nintendo eShop on December 10, 2015.[43] A Wii U version was released on the eShop in June 2016.[44]

Version 1.3 was released on June 30, 2015, adding even more items, events, enemies, bosses, and gameplay features. The update was released for consoles on December 12, 2017, and was released for mobile on August 27, 2019.[45] In July 2016, 505 Games announced that Engine Software and Codeglue would no longer be working on the console and mobile versions respectively and that a new studio, Pipeworks, would take over the development of those versions.[46] A version for the Nintendo Switch, ported by 505 Games, was released on June 27, 2019.[47] In December 2018, 505 Games announced that development of the 1.3 update for mobile would be taken over by DR Studios to help Pipeworks focus on the Switch port of the game.[48] In August 2020, Re-Logic announced that development of the Console and Switch would be taken over by DR Studios.[49]

The fourth and final major update for the game, Journey's End, was released on May 16, 2020, the ninth anniversary of the game's initial release.[50] As with previous updates, it added new items, enemies, difficulty modes, and gameplay features.[51][52]

In early February 2021, Andrew Spinks announced the cancellation of the Stadia port of Terraria due to the suspension of the Re-Logic/Spinks's Google account without a given reason for over three weeks.[53] He also announced that Re-Logic would not be working with Google again in the future stating, "I will not be involved with a corporation that values their customers and partners so little. Doing business with Google is a liability."[54] He later clarified that existing Android and Google Play versions of the game will not be affected.[55] Later that February, Google reached out to Re-Logic about the account shutdown and provided transparency around the situation and restored their accounts, and subsequently, Re-Logic reaffirmed that they still planned to release the game for Stadia, which it did on March 18, 2021.[56]

A March 2021 update for the Steam version of the game added direct support for resource packs, worlds, and character sharing through the Steam Workshop. TModLoader is still used to help provide and install user-created mods for the game.[57]

***Yes, this is copied of Wikipedia! :)***
